With your.harvard, we hoped to create a more stream-lined, user-oriented experience. The key functionality of our website is a more conveniently selective course filtering system. To use our website, you'll have to emulate the following steps: first, you will need access to the "project" file (which we should be providing upon our final submission) on the CS50 IDE. Then, you will need to update the workspace. After that, you will want to get to the correct directory (which can be done by running the following command in the terminal: "cd project/yourharvard"). Finally, all you have to do is enter "flask run" in the terminal and click on the corresponding link on the CS50 IDE.

When on the site, the user will be initially prompted to login. If the user has not previously made an account, they should click on the header (or the footer) link titled "Register". The user will be prompted to enter a username (prompted to be their Harvard e-mail address), a password, their full name, their concentration, their house or dorm, and their class year. Following registration, the user will be automatically logged in assuming registration was successful. The user will be directed to the your.harvard homepage - the portal.

The portal is the central hub of your.harvard, essentially containing all of the features necessary to easily accessing course searching (via the Quick-Search bar), access to popular courses (recommended by us, the creators for the user), and the Advanced Course Search bar. (*Note that the Quick-Search bar is sensitive to the course's name, so searching "East Asian Cinema" will yield the correct/desired course but "east asian cinema" or "East asian cine" will both yield apologies.) The Advanced Course Search bar allows the user to filter prospective courses by department, time of meetings, course rating, instructor rating, and the average hours spent on that class per week (according to that course's corresponding Q-Guide data). Aside from these features, the portal also has direct links to important Harvard-affiliated offices and services such as OCS, OIE, and more. If we return to the header (or footer), we see the other key pages of your.harvard: the "Personal Information" page and the "Courses" page.

The Personal Information page simply allows the user to view their public information (Dorm/House, Class Year, Concentration, etc.) and also allows them to create a bio.

The Courses page displays all of the courses (presently loaded into our database, so about 100 courses) beneath another Quick-Search bar and Advanced Course Search bar. (Due to the fact that we were not granted easy access to Harvard's actual course catalogue database, we capped the total courses at 100 on account of the fact that we felt that manually inputting 10,000+ courses is time that could be better allocated elsewhere.) This is why we did not implement a feature that limited displayed courses by the hundreds.

Each course in the Courses page also has its own individual page upon being clicked. This page displays the course's essential information (Course Title, Times, Q Scores, Workload Per Week, etc.) and two crimson tabs that, upon being clicked, offer an option for the user to either indicate if they're interested in the course (top tab) or to leave a comment on the course (bottom tab). (Prime examples of the interested/commenting feature are on the CS50 course page and the Anime as Global Popular Culture course pages.) This will allow different opinions regarding certain courses be more publicly accessible outside of the Q Guide's commenting system.

Aside from these features, we have the header and footer links that lead to the student's Canvas account or the Harvard Facebook (Student Directory).

So we hope that we have provided a solid, more user-friendly Harvard Hub that could possibly be expanded on in the future.